---
title: Enrollment application process
---

Enrolling in a Tech Learning Collective course is a two-stage process:

1. First, we request that you submit a registration application, along with a $25 application fee. (See [Pricing]({{ "/pricing/" | relative_url }}) for details.) The application consists of a short questionaire intended to help TLC admissions predict whether you and your peers will find your course experience valuable, along with a small placement test designed to ensure you are at a point in your studies where the course to which you applied will actually help you become a more skilled technologist. Based on the results of your placement test, we may ask that you consider re-applying to a different course, or that you complete some self-study exercises on your own before re-applying to the same course. If your application is not approved due to the results of your placement test, you will be able to carry your application fee over to your next application.
1. If you proceed to the next stage of the enrollment process, we will ask you to make time for a remote video interview. (To participate, you merely need access to a modern Web browser such as an up-to-date copy of [Mozilla Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox/) or [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/).) The interview is a casual, brief (~30 minute) conversation conducted by a TLC teacher, teaching assistant, or alumnum. This is an opportunity for the TLC team to get to know you a little better and for you to get to know us. We will probably ask you a little bit about your interests in technology and may ask you to walk us through your solution to the placement test in your application. We will also invite you to ask us any questions you might have regarding TLC or our own projects.

**If you are accepted as a student**, you will be eligible to enroll in the course to which you have applied. Courses are offered semi-regularly and are based on a combination of teacher, student, and venue availability. You will have a 6-month window in which you can choose the specific course timeline that works best for your schedule. This means that you do not necessarily have to enroll immediately upon approval, although you risk voiding your application if you postpone for more than half a year after your acceptance. This stipulation is nullified if the course itself is postponed (i.e., your enrollment window will be extended if we become unable to offer the course to which you have been accepted).

**If you are not accepted as a student**, please don’t take it personally. This simply means that, at the moment, we think that classes offered elsewhere will be a better fit for you. Nevertheless, you are welcome to re-apply as early as three months later. While your original application fee is non-refundable, re-applying for the same course will waive your application fee. (This waiver does not apply to applications for different courses.) We do not provide applicants any feedback on the applications they submit.
